The most popular AI agent framework in
the world just got dethroned. In May
2026, Hermes agent hit number one on
open routes' global rankings, processing
224 billion tokens a day, according to
MarkTech Post. Open Law, the framework
with 347,000
stars on GitHub, dropped to number two.
And the reason it happened has nothing
to do with features.
Hey, I'm Johnny now. I spent years
building businesses the old hard way,
managing teams, scaling operations, and
doing everything manually. Today,
everything I built, from automations and
no-code infrastructures to fully
AI-sourced products, has AI helping in
one way or another.
>> Please excuse me, I want to show you
this. In South Africa, we call this a
braai.
>> I built with AI tools that, in my
opinion, anyone can learn to use. My
mission is simple: to help creators,
entrepreneurs, and business owners get
clarity with AI. Let's build smarter
together and enjoy this video.
Most comparisons out there are feature
checklists from someone who skimmed
through the docs. This is a head-to-head
from someone who runs both frameworks
and has broken both in production. I run
an Open Law-based agent every single
day. It handles my content pipeline, my
research, my scheduling, and last month
I spun up Hermes agent alongside it to
stress test the one claim everyone keeps
making, that it actually learns from its
mistakes. What I found doesn't give you
a winner. It gives you a decision
framework, and that's worth a lot more.
So, here's what we're covering: the
architecture split that shapes
everything downstream, the memory gap
that actually separates these two, and
it's not what you think. And also the
security story that nobody is telling
honestly on either side, and which one
to pick based on what you're actually
building, not what sounds cooler on X.
You see, picking the wrong framework,
you're either locked into a system where
1,467
plus skills in this marketplace have
security flaws. 76% of them confirmed
malicious prompt injection laid on top
of the traditional malware, according to
Snig's toxic skills study. So, take that
into consideration. Or, you're betting
your production stack on a framework
that is a few months old with a default
security posture of allowing everything.
You see, this is not a case where the
one has more integrations and now we're
running with that. This is which one
won't break at scale and share your
vulnerable information voluntarily. And
here's what should keep you up,
considering all of these facts. Your
agent is accumulating context you've
never audited. Your perms are the same
ones set on day one when you're just
trying to get something working. So,
something is running your credentials
right now and you might not know exactly
what it can or can't do. And take it
from me, I found this out the hard way
when my own Open Law instance was
running an exposed configuration for 3
weeks before I caught it. Nothing
happened that time, but it's not to say
that something like that wouldn't happen
again. This is why this is crucially
important. So, let's just jump straight
in. So, the first point that we're going
to look at is the architec- So, let's
start with how these two frameworks
think about the word because it
determines everything else. Open Law is
a gateway server that routes messages
across 16 plus messaging platforms into
an agent runtime. As described in the
official architecture docs, you can
think about it the switchboard operator
sitting between your users and your AI.
And it doesn't care what you built, it
just makes sure that messages get to
where they need to go. Where Hermes
Agent on the other side is the opposite.
It's an execution engine that happens to
connect to platforms. So, it doesn't
think about routing that much. It thinks
about getting tasks done. Open Law
organizes agents where Hermes is the
agent. Not to say that either of them
can fit each others roles. The reasons
why this matters is if you need one
system talking across Telegram, Slack,
Discord, WhatsApp, the web, etc.
Openclaw was built for that. If you need
an agent that gets better at completing
complex tasks over time, Hermes was
built for that. Same category,
completely different design philosophy.
Now again, not to say that they can't do
what either of them can do individually.
Moving from there, we can look at point
number two, which is the memory gap. And
this is a huge thing. We've had Openclaw
instances similar to Claw Code where
users connect their Obsidian trying to
configure it with different third-party
integrations, looking at different APIs,
infrastructures. But the real
differentiator
is understanding how the memory gap
works and how these agents go and
retrieve the information to ensure that
everything is stored securely. By the
way, I did drop a full-on comprehensive
document that you can upload to any of
your agents with its Claw Code, Hermes
Agent, or on Openclaw
inside of our school community below.
I'll drop the link down in the
description for you to access it. The
memory gap is the real differentiator.
Not the star counts, not the plugin
members,
memory.
Hermes Agent uses a three-layer memory
system. Prompt memory, episodic archive,
and skill memory. After it finishes a
complex task, it writes a structured
record of what worked, what failed, and
what to try differently next time.
These become reusable skill MD files
with procedures, failure modes, and
verification steps. The next time it
encounters a similar task, it retrieves
those records
and performs better. That is not a
feature, that is a feedback loop.
A cause, a mechanism effect. Task
completion generates structured
reflection, and reflection gets indexed
and retrieved on similar future tasks.
Where retrieval produces measurably
better outcomes on the next run, the
agent just compounds. And that is
crucial. By the way, we've also got a
great guide on how to bring in
local models to help keep it efficient.
So, you can just run Hermes on the $20 a
month ChatGPT subscription. Anyway,
that's in the school community down
below as well. So, open closed memory is
whatever you manually configure. You can
build on multiple different memories
through its plugin ecosystem, and that
ecosystem is massive. But, out-the-box
open closed doesn't retain what it
learned between sessions. Every
conversation starts fresh unless
you've built a perspective layer
yourself. For quick interactions across
many platforms, that's fine. But, for
deep work that needs to get smarter over
time, we think about research within the
context, whether you're doing content
creation, complex workflows, etc. The
difference is night and day. And if the
memory's not set up correctly, that
could also become vulnerable to attacks.
And that leads me to point number three,
security. This is where I need you to
pay very close attention because both
sides can be dishonest about this. Just
in different directions.
Open closed security is public and ugly.
The CVE,
that's a CVSS 8.8 remote code execution
vulnerability tracked in the national
vulnerability database.
One click, your authentication tokens
gets exfiltrated, and they're inside
your system. Now, OpenAI has been doing
a very, very good job in assisting to
patch all of that up. But, every single
update almost creates a huge technical
challenge to overcome. I see this in the
community.
We help obviously each other to overcome
that. It is just it's frustrating to go
through it. But, by the time the
researchers were looking, InfoSecurity
Magazine reported over 40,000 OpenClaw
instances exposed on the public
internet. That is 63% of the ones they
observed were still vulnerable. And this
wasn't an isolated incident. Hive
Security tracked 100 in total CVEs
against OpenClaw in 2026 alone. And not
to mention ClawHub, the skill
marketplace.
Snike's toxic skill study found 1,467
plus skills with security flaws. Now,
important distinction, 76 of those
confirmed malicious, but not all 1,467.
But, 90% of the malicious ones combined
prompt injection with traditional
malware techniques. It is a work in
progress, but my question to you as a
non-technical founder is, can you risk
going through all of that without really
having the help and the know-how to go
about resolving it? 10.9% of all of the
skills in the marketplace contained
hard-coded secrets. That's API keys,
tokens, credentials sitting right there
in the code. The Hermes crowd loves
pointing at those numbers and saying,
"See, we're safer." That's not entirely
true. You see, Hermes agent has zero
agent-specific CVEs, but an independent
security audit in April 2026 found four
critical and nine high severity findings
in its default config. Now, from my
experience, looks like that's been
patched, but it's unrestricted shell
execution, unrestricted file system
access, approval bypass when running in
containers, and persistent skill
creation with no sandboxing. The default
security posture is a allow all. Now,
here's the mechanism chain that should
scare you. Broad permissions in default
configuration leads to unconstrained
tool access, which leads to a goal
obstacle collision. The agent wants to
complete your tasks, and something is in
the way, which leads to an improvised
workaround, which leads to unintended
consequences nobody authorized. Now
again, we've got all of these security
architectures, all of the documentation
that you need, in my opinion, to be able
to set this up and remove as much as the
security risk as possible from either of
these platforms. Think about it in this
way. If you tell a human assistant, "Get
this done by any means necessary." they
have social consequences and legal fears
to constrain them. And an AI agent has
none of those. See it like this, Open
Claw threat is someone breaking in,
where Hermes threat is your own agent
breaking out. Neither framework is fully
secure out of the box, but their failure
modes are completely different and the
fixes are completely different. With
Open Claw, you're hardening a parameter,
locking down exposed instances, auditing
marketplace skills, patching CVEs as
they drop. With Hermes, you're
containing an execution engine, scoping
permissions, sandboxing skill creation,
building approval gates into every
destructive operation. And that's
actually good news, because once you
understand the model, you can fix it.
You're not stuck. You're informed. Quick
pause, guys. I do break down exactly how
I hardened both of these frameworks, as
mentioned, the specific settings I run
in my production Open Claw agent, the
five-layer permission audit spreadsheet,
and the word-for-word escalation rules I
wrote after an agent tried to modify
files outside of the sandbox.
All of that is inside of the AI
Founder's Vault. That link is down in
the description below. Now, let's look
at point number four, ecosystem versus
self-efficiency.
Open Claw has the numbers, over 13,700
community built skills as of February
2026, according to the Claw Hub
registry. And that number keeps
climbing. Claw Hub is the central
registry and the breadth of its
integration is generally impressive. If
you need a specific connector, someone
has probably already built it. That's
the power of being the most start
project on GitHub. You attract
contributors at scale and really good
ones as well, but also very risky ones.
You see Hermes takes the opposite bit.
It ships with 40 plus built-in tools.
Here's the part that really matters. It
creates new skills autonomously through
its learning loop. So, remember those
skill.md documents from part two? That's
not just memory. That's the agent
building its own toolkit on the fly. So,
the question isn't which one has more
tools. The question is do you want a
marketplace where you pick from what's
available or do you want a system that
builds what it needs? Do you want
breadth or do you want depth? Browser
catalog or do you train an agent or have
the agent train itself? You see for most
non-technical founders that's currently
building with AI and starting out, Open
Claw's ecosystem gets you to production
perhaps faster. For builders who need
compounding intelligence on specific
workflows, Hermes' self-sufficiency
means you spend less time shopping for
more plugins and more times shipping on
what's actually moving the needle for in
your business depending on what you
built. And that is leading me to point
number five, which is which tool you
should be using. To be clear, I'm not
going to declare winner because that
would be dishonest. These frameworks
solve different problems. You see, you
can use Open Claw when you need a
multi-channel orchestration. You've got
users on Slack, Telegram, WhatsApp,
Discord, etc. and you need one agent
brain behind all of it. Open Claw was
purpose-built for that routing layer and
nothing else does it as well, in my
opinion. Also, use it when you need
quick access to a massive skill library
and your use case is well served by
existing community tools.
Bear in mind the security flaws. Just
putting it out there. If you don't have
the right security architecture set up
on any of these agents, you are
eventually going to find yourself
running into some problems. Looking at
Hermes, you can use Hermes when you need
deep task execution that gets better
over time. Think about it for research
pipelines, content creation workflows,
anything where the agent runs the same
class of tasks repeatedly and you want
it learning from each instead of
starting fresh. And if you're a builder
who's serious about not just testing,
actually shipping, you can combine them.
But the thing is the dual stack
architecture that goes with it. And this
is really what nobody in some form of
comparison videos will tell you because
they haven't shipped both. You don't
choose, you stack them. Open Claw
handles what it was designed for,
channel routing, workspace operations,
message orchestration across platforms.
It's the front door. It knows how to
talk to everything while Hermes handles
what was designed for complex tasks
execution with learning. It's the engine
room. It gets smarter every time it
runs. Open Claw receives a task routed
to the right context and hands execution
off to Hermes. Hermes completes the
tasks, writes what it learned, and the
next time that type of task comes
through, more accurate. The router
doesn't need to learn. The executor
doesn't need to route. Each framework
does what it does best. That is where
this is heading for anyone building
production agent systems. Not one or the
other, both in their proper roles. And
you can build that today if you truly
understand how to run with it. You can
also use either or. I know people in the
community that just swear by Open Claw
while others enjoy Hermes. And I must
admit I've been operating a lot on
Hermes for the past month and I must say
I'm really, really enjoying it. My
wife's using it. It's very, very easy to
set up, to install, especially now with
the desktop app that also came out. It
might be much more user-friendly,
especially if you're getting into the
agentic realm. With Open Claw, I would
say first get a familiarity with other
Claw code or Hermes agent and then move
over to Open Claw. But if you have the
technical know-how, why not plug in both
and also plug in the local? And if you
got something out of this,
I do invite you to subscribe. I put out
the agentic architecture breakdowns like
this regularly for builders who actually
ship and not just spectate. So, drop a
comment which framework are you running
right now and what is your biggest pain
point with it? I read every comment and
the best questions become future videos.
And if you want the dual stack
architecture I just described as well as
all the other information I just
mentioned, that is all stored inside of
the AI Founders Vault community.
See you in there.